feat(guide): updated modal page for label (#11169)
discordjs/discord.js: apps/guide/content/docs/legacy/interactions/modals.mdx

title: Modals
---

> Modals are pop-up forms that allow you to prompt users for additional input. This form-like interaction response blocks the user from interacting with Discord until the modal is submitted or dismissed. In this section we will cover how to create, show, and receive modals using discord.js!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modals are pop-up forms that allow you to prompt users for additional input. This form-like interaction response blocks the user from interacting with Discord until the modal is submitted or dismissed. In this section, we will cover how to create, show, and receive modals using discord.js!
```

<Callout>
	This page is a follow-up to the [interactions (slash commands) page](../slash-commands/advanced-creation). Reading
	that page first will help you understand the concepts introduced in this page.
</Callout>

## Building and responding with modals

> Modals are a way to respond to a user interaction. Submitting the modal in turn will send a new interaction you can respond to. Discord.js offers the `ModalBuilder` class as a convenient way to build modals step by step using setters and callbacks.

Reviewer 2: Unsure about the phrasing of "user interaction", since this is somewhat connecting to User Context Menu interactions.

			// Short means a single line of text.
			.setStyle(TextInputStyle.Short)
			// Placeholder text displayed inside the text input box
			.setPlaceholder('card games, films, books, etc.');

		// [!code focus:10]
		const hobbiesLabel = new LabelBuilder()
			// The label is a large header that identifies the interactive component for the user.
			.setLabel("What's some of your favorite hobbies?")
			// The description is optional small text beneath the label that provides additional information about the interactive component.
			.setDescription('Activities you like to participate in')
			// [!code ++:2]
			// Set text input as the component of the label
			.setTextInputComponent(hobbiesInput);

		// Add the label to the modal
		modal.addLabelComponents(hobbiesLabel);
	}
});
```

#### Input styles

Discord offers two different input styles:

- `Short`, a single-line text entry
- `Paragraph`, a multi-line text entry

#### Input properties

A text input field can be customized in a number of ways to apply validation or set default values via the following `TextInputBuilder` methods:

```js
const input = new TextInputBuilder()
	// Set the component id (this is not the custom id)

> 	.setId(0)

Reviewer: Setting an id of `0` makes Discord treat it as if one did not set an id. Use `1` or higher.

```suggestion
	.setId(1)
```

	// Set the maximum number of characters allowed
	.setMaxLength(1_000)
	// Set the minimum number of characters required for submission
	.setMinLength(10)
	// Set a default value to pre-fill the text input
	.setValue('Default')
	// Require a value in this text input field (defaults to true)
	.setRequired(true);
```

<Callout>
	The `id` field is used to differentiate components within interactions (which text input, selection, etc.). In
	contrast, the `customId` covered earlier identifies the interaction (which modal, command, etc.).
</Callout>

### Select menu

> Select menus allow you to limit user input to a preselected list of values. Discord also offers selections for Discord-specific concepts like users, roles, and channels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select menus allow you to limit user input to a preselected list of values. Discord also offers select menus linked directly to native Discord entities like users, roles, and channels.
```
I wouldn't consider a "user" or a "role" a Discord-specific concept.

> Since they behave very similar as in messages, please refer to the [corresponding guide page](../interactive-components/select-menus) for more information on configuring select menus.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since they behave very similarly to how they do in messages, please refer to the [corresponding guide page](../interactive-components/select-menus) for more information on configuring select menus.
```

		// ...

		// [!code focus:2]
		// [!code ++]
		const pictureOfTheWeekUpload = new FileUploadBuilder().setCustomId('picture');

		// ...

		// [!code focus:12]
		// [!code ++:5]
		const pictureOfTheWeekLabel = new LabelBuilder()
			.setLabel('Picture of the Week')
			.setDescription('The best pictures you have taken this week')
			// Set file upload as component of the label
			.setFileUploadComponent(pictureOfTheWeekUpload);

		// Add components to modal
		modal
			.addLabelComponents(hobbiesLabel, favoriteStarterLabel)
			// [!code --]
			.addTextDisplayComponents(text);
			// [!code ++:2]
			.addTextDisplayComponents(text)
			.addLabelComponents(pictureOfTheWeekLabel);
	}
});
```

#### File upload properties

A file upload component can be customized to apply validation via the following `FileUploadBuilder` methods:

```js
const pictureOfTheWeekUpload = new FileUploadBuilder()
	// Set the optional identifier for component
	.setId(0)
	// Minimum number of items that must be uploaded (defaults to 1); min 0, max 10
	.setMinValues(1)
	// Maximum number of items that can be uploaded (defaults to 1); max 10
	.setMaxValues(1)

> 	// Require a value in this text input field (defaults to true)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// Require a value in this file upload component (defaults to true)
```

	.setRequired(true);
```

<Callout>
 The `id` field is used to differentiate components within interactions (which text input, selection, etc.).   
 In contrast, the `customId` covered earlier identifies the interaction (which modal, command, etc.).

> You **cannot** limit and validate **file size** or **file extension**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You **cannot** limit and validate the **file size** or the **file extension**.
```

</Callout>

### Responding with a modal

> With the modal built call `ChatInputCommandInteraction#showModal` to send the interaction response to Discord an display the modal to the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the modal built, call `ChatInputCommandInteraction#showModal` to send the interaction response to Discord and display the modal to the user.
```

<Callout type="warn">

> 	Showing a modal must be the first response to an interaction. You **cannot defer modals**.

Reviewer: One of these:

```suggestion
	Showing a modal must be the first response to an interaction. You **cannot** defer modals.
```

```suggestion
	Showing a modal must be the first response to an interaction. **You cannot defer modals**.
```

```

<Callout>

> 	The `customId` is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters. Use this field to uniquely identify of an

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	The `customId` is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters. Use this field to uniquely identify
```

	incoming interactions from your modals.
</Callout>

> The next step is to add components to the `modalBuilder`.

Reviewer 4: Change to `ModalBuilder`

### Label

Label components are used to add a label and description to interactive modal components.(text input, select menus, etc.)

```js
const { LabelBuilder, ModalBuilder } = require('discord.js');

client.on(Events.InteractionCreate, async (interaction) => {
	if (!interaction.isChatInputCommand()) return;
	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		// Create the modal
		const modal = new ModalBuilder().setCustomId('myModal').setTitle('My Modal');

		// [!code focus:12]
		// TODO: Add more interactive components...

		// [!code ++:5]
		const hobbiesLabel = new LabelBuilder()
			// The Label is large text identifying the interactive component to the user
			.setLabel("What's some of your favorite hobbies?")

> 			// The description is optional small text under the label and above the interactive component

Reviewer 4: Change to "The description is optional small text beneath the label that provides additional information about the interactive component."

Reviewer 5: Sadly, I'm not that good with words 🙂. Just push your version, if it doesn't feel right, others may request changes

			.setDescription('Activities you like to participate in');

		// TODO: Add more components...

		// [!code ++:2]
		// Add label to the modal
		modal.addLabelComponents(hobbiesLabel);

		// TODO: Respond with modal...
	}
});
```

<Callout type="warn">

> 	`label` can be a max length of 45 characters

Reviewer 4: Change to "`label` can have a max length of 45 characters."

    `description` can be a max length of 100 characters

</Callout>

### Text Input

> Text input is an interactive component used to accept free-form text.

Reviewer 4: Change to "A text input is an interactive component used to receive free-form text."

```js
const { LabelBuilder, ModalBuilder, TextInputBuilder, TextInputStyle } = require('discord.js');

client.on(Events.InteractionCreate, async (interaction) => {
	if (!interaction.isChatInputCommand()) return;
	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		// Create the modal
		const modal = new ModalBuilder().setCustomId('myModal').setTitle('My Modal');

		// [!code focus:6]
		// [!code ++:6]
		const hobbiesInput = new TextInputBuilder()
			.setCustomId('hobbiesInput')
			// Short means single lines of text
			.setStyle(TextInputStyle.Short)
			// Uninteractable text inside of the text input box
			.setPlaceholder('card games, films, books, etc.');

> 		// TODO: Add more interactive components

Reviewer 4: TODO?

		// [!code focus:8]
		const hobbiesLabel = new LabelBuilder()
			// The Label is large text identifying the interactive component to the user
			.setLabel("What's some of your favorite hobbies?")
			// The description is optional small text under the label and above the interactive component
			.setDescription('Activities you like to participate in')
			// [!code ++:2]

> 			// Set text input component of the label

Author: Assign is not the right verb to use here.

		// Add the label to the modal
		modal.addLabelComponents(hobbiesLabel);

		// TODO: Respond with modal...
	}
});
```

#### Input styles

Currently there are two different input styles available:

- `Short`, a single-line text entry
- `Paragraph`, a multi-line text entry

#### Input properties

In addition to the `customId` and `style`, a text input can be customized in a number of ways to apply validation, prompt the user, or set default values via the `TextInputBuilder` methods:

```js
const input = new TextInputBuilder()
	// set the component id (this is not the custom id)
	.setId(0)
	// Set the maximum number of characters to allowed
	.setMaxLength(1_000)
	// Set the minimum number of characters required for submission
	.setMinLength(10)
	// Set a default value to pre-fill the text input
	.setValue('Default')
	// Require a value in this text input field (defaults to true)
	.setRequired(true);
```

### Select Menu

A select menu is an interactive component that allows you to limit user inputs to a preselected list of values.

In addition to string select menus, menus for users, roles, mentionables (user and roles), and channels can be used in modals

<Callout>

> 	For more information on the configuration of [select menus](../interactive-components/select-menus) see the

Reviewer 4: Change to "For more information on configuring \[select menus](../interactive-components/select-menus), see the interaction page."

```js
const {
	StringSelectMenuBuilder,
	StringSelectMenuOptionBuilder,
	LabelBuilder,
	ModalBuilder,
	TextInputBuilder,
	TextInputStyle,
} = require('discord.js');

client.on(Events.InteractionCreate, async (interaction) => {
	if (!interaction.isChatInputCommand()) return;
	if (interaction.commandName === 'ping') {
		// Create the modal
		const modal = new ModalBuilder().setCustomId('myModal').setTitle('My Modal');

		const hobbiesInput = new TextInputBuilder()
			.setCustomId('hobbiesInput')
			// Short means single lines of text
			.setStyle(TextInputStyle.Short)
			// Uninteractable text inside of the text input
			.setPlaceholder('card games, films, books, etc.');

		const favoriteStarterSelect = new StringSelectMenuBuilder()
			.setCustomId('starter')
			.setPlaceholder('Make a selection!')
			// Modal only property on select menus to prevent submission, defaults to true
			.setRequired(true)
			.addOptions(
				// String select menu options
				new StringSelectMenuOptionBuilder()
					// Label displayed to user
					.setLabel('Bulbasaur')
					// Description of option
					.setDescription('The dual-type Grass/Poison Seed Pokémon.')

> 					// Value returned to in modal submission

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
					// Value returned to you in modal submission
```

```

<Callout>
	The `customId` is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters. Use this field to uniquely identify of an
	incoming interactions from your modals.
</Callout>

> The next step is to add components to the `modalBuilder`. These modal components are used to create the form of the modal.

Reviewer 6: i'm not sure what you are trying to convey with "the form of the modal".

			// [!code ++:2]
			// set text input component of label
			.setTextInputComponent(hobbiesInput);

		// TODO: Add components to modal...

		// Add label to modal
		modal.addLabelComponents(hobbiesLabel);

		// TODO: Respond with modal...
	}
});
```

#### Input styles

Currently there are two different input styles available:

- `Short`, a single-line text entry
- `Paragraph`, a multi-line text entry

#### Input properties

In addition to the `customId` and `style`, a text input can be customized in a number of ways to apply validation, prompt the user, or set default values via the `TextInputBuilder` methods:

```js
const input = new TextInputBuilder()
	// set the component id (this is not the custom id)
	.setId(0)
	// Set the maximum number of characters to allowed
	.setMaxLength(1_000)
	// Set the minimum number of characters required for submission
	.setMinLength(10)
	// Set a default value to pre-fill the text input
	.setValue('Default')
	// Require a value in this text input field (defaults to true)
	.setRequired(true);
```

### Select Menu

Select menu is an interactive component that allows you to limit user inputs to a preselected list of values

> In addition to string select menus, menus for users, roles, mentionables(user and roles), and channels can be used in modals

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
In addition to string select menus, menus for users, roles, mentionables (user and roles), and channels can be used in modals
```

<Callout>
	The custom id is a developer-defined string of up to 100 characters. Use this field to ensure you can uniquely define

> 	all incoming interactions from your modals.

Reviewer 6: "Use this field to uniquely identify of an incoming interactions from your modals."
i might be missing something here, but i still don't think that this is valid grammar.

- `deleteReply()`
- `followUp()`

> If the modal was shown prompted through a button or select menu interaction, it will additionally provide methods to update the underlying message:

Reviewer: I know this was here previously, but this is factually incorrect: the class does not conditionally have these methods. They are present regardless of being interacted via a button or a select menu.

I would opt for this:

```suggestion
If the modal was prompted through a button or select menu interaction, these methods may be used to update the underlying message:
```

	}
});
```

<Callout>
	If you're using typescript, you can use the `ModalSubmitInteraction#isFromMessage` type guard, to make sure the
	received interaction was from a `MessageComponentInteraction`.
</Callout>

## Extracting data from modal submissions

You'll most likely need to read the data sent by the user in the modal. You can do this by accessing the `ModalSubmitInteraction#fields`. From there you can call `ModalSubmitFields#getTextInputValue` with the custom id of the component to get the value.

```js
client.on(Events.InteractionCreate, (interaction) => {
	if (!interaction.isModalSubmit()) return;
	if (interaction.customId === 'myModal') {
		await interaction.reply({ content: 'Your submission was received successfully!' });

		// [!code focus:6]
		// Get the data entered by the user
		const hobbies = interaction.fields.getTextInputValue('hobbiesInput');
		const starter = interaction.fields.getStringSelectValues('starter');
		const picture = interaction.fields.getUploadedFiles('picture');

		console.log({ hobbies, starter, picture });
	}
});
```

<Callout>
	when a empty text input is submitted it returns a empty string `""`. like wise when a select menu is submitted with no

> 	selection made it has a empty array `[]`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	selection made it has an empty array `[]`.
```
